h1. Open File Fast

h2. Introduction

*Open File Fast* is a plugin for "Netbeans IDE":http://netbeans.org and "JEdit":http://jedit.org which allows you to quickly find and open files in your projects.

It is inspired by "Textmate's":http://macromates.com/ quick open file dialog. However, it has a lot more features. Basically it works like this: you type only several characters of filename you are searching for and you get list of all files matching your pattern. For example, when you are looking for FooBar.java you can type _fbj_ and you will find it. It really helps navigating through the project (especially bigger ones) as you don't need to use a mouse nor locate a filename visually in project tree but just use filename shortcuts.

h2. Download

You can download the plugins from the "releases page":https://github.com/sickill/off-plugin/releases.

h2. Key features of Open File Fast

* Quick finding and opening any file from selected project
* Two matching modes:
** _Smart_ (like in Textmate, matching filenames must contain all typed characters, they can be separated by other characters)
** _Exact_ (like Netbeans' Go-To-File, matching filenames must contain exact phrase)
* Matching from start of filename or anywhere in filename
* Support for &#42; wildcard in _exact_ mode
* Changing minimum entered pattern length needed for searching (default: 3)
* Changing delay (time from last keystroke) after which searching starts (default: 300ms)
* Optional cleaning of search input field when O-F-F window opens
* Hiding files you don't work on (matching specified regular expresions) from results
* Moving less important files (matching specified regular expresions) to the bottom of results list
* Results sorted by:
** File popularity (files opened frequently at the top of list)
** Match accuracy (distance between characters from search phrase in matched filenames)
* Opening multiple files at once (selected with ctrl/shift + mouse)

h2. Usage

Open File Fast plugin installs itself in Netbeans' __Navigate__ menu as __Open File Fast__. I recommend creating a keyboard shortcut for it in _Tools/Options/Keymap/Project_.

When invoked, it opens a search dialog. Type _some_ characters from filename you want to find. _Some_ as you may skip any characters you want. Use &#42; as a placeholder for any text. You can narrow down the search to files in specified directory by typing a directory prefix followed by slash and then a filename pattern.

For example, type:
* _user_ when looking for _user.rb_ or _UberServer.java_
* _ush_ when looking for <em>users_helper.rb</em>
* _&#42;.js_ when you want to list all javascript files (_&#42;_ is not needed here if "Matching from start of filename" is turned off in preferences)
* _a/m/_ when you want to list all files in _app/models_ directory
* _a/v/s_ when you are looking for _show.html_ in _app/views_ directory

h2. Configuration

Open File Fast can be set up to your own preferences and to match your own workflow. You can configure it under _Open File Fast_ tab in Netbeans' _Miscellaneous_ options.

h2. Building from source

h3. NetBeans plugin

* You will need a NetBeans installation that includes the NetBeans Platform SDK.
** This is included by default in the standard Java SE and Java EE variations.
** If you're using the C/C++ or HTML5 & PHP bundles, you will probably need to install the _NetBeans Plugin Development_ plugin.
* Clone this repo.
* In NetBeans, go to _File_ - _Open Project..._, navigate to the _netbeans_ subdir in the repo and open it.
** The dir should have a special icon. If it doesn't, your installation probably doesn't have the _NetBeans Plugin Development_ plugin.
* Right click on the project and select _Create NBM_.
* If all goes well, this should create a _net-sickill-off.nbm_ file in the _netbeans/build_ dir of the repo.
* When making changes to the code, keep in mind that the _netbeans/src/net/sickill/off/common_ package contains code that is used by both the NetBeans and the jEdit plugin. If you're planning to submit pull requests with changes to these files, make sure they don't break the jEdit plugin.

h3. jEdit plugin

* You will need to download and install jEdit from http://www.jedit.org/
* You will also need to download the ProjectViewer plugin from http://plugins.jedit.org/plugins/?ProjectViewer
** Install it by unpacking _ProjectViewer.jar_ and _kappalayout.jar_ to jEdit's plugin jars directory.
** See http://plugins.jedit.org/install.php for more info.
* Clone this repo.
* Copy _jedit/build.properties.example_ to _jedit/build.properties_ and change _PROVIDE_THIS_VALUE_ to your jEdit installation dir.
** If you want to build OFF as a user plugin rather than a system plugin, also change the _install.dir_ property.
** On Windows, you probably need to change backslashes to slashes in the paths.
* Right click on the project and select _Package_.
* If all goes well, this should create an _off-jedit.jar_ file in your jEdit plugin jars dir.
